# git-assignment
The second assignment
Question 1 Version control is a system that tracks changes made to files over time.GitHub is popular since it provides web based platform to manage and host the version code repositories maintaining a complete record of changes made to the project. Version control maintain project integrity by tracking changes, reverting to previous versions and collaboration management.
Question 2 Go to the plus sign in the upper-right corner of the page, select , then click New repository. Type a short, name for your repository. Optionally, add a description of your repository. Choose a repository visibility. Select Initialize this repository with a README. Click Create repository. Some of the imporatnt decisions include choosing visibilty annd whether or not to add a description to the project.
Question 3 README file provides important information about the project, communicates expectations and help manage contributions.A well written README file includes summary of what the software does, makes information easily accessible, explain testing procedures, show users how to get started and decribes common problems and bugs. README file contributes to effective collaboration by helping new users to quickly understand project's goals, architecture and guidelines.
Question 4 A public repository is accessible to anyone on the internet while a private repository can only be accessed by the owner or invited collaborators. Public repositories promote open collaboration while private repositories priorotize code protection in sensitive projects. Public repositories are advantagious when it comes to transparency, open collaboration and serve as learning tools for developers. However, public repositories are limited in security concerns, the owner has less control over it and there is also the risk of unwanted contributions being made. Private repository are advantagious in terms of privacy and security, controlled collaboration and internal development. Private repositories are disadvantagious when it comes to; limited feedback, lack of external perspectives and leads to additional costs.
Question 5 Clone the empty repo.Now go to your repo using cd command and create a local branch say developement using command git checkout -b development. We can now add some files in the repo echo "A new repo" > Readme. Stage all the unstages files to commit git add .Git add . command marks all. Commits are used in a central repository keeping the entire team informed on the changes made. Commits have a version control element that manages different versions of the software.
Question 6 Branching is a parallel line of development that allows developers to work on a specic feature or bug fixes independently from the main code base. It allows experimentation and making changes without affecting the stable version. The branching process starts with creating a branch, switching to a branch, making changes and committing, pusing changes to the repository, creating a pull request and merging a branch.
Question 7 Pull requests merge the changes from a feature branch into the main branch which triggers a review process by other team members. Pull request facilitate review and collaboration by allowing team members to review changes before they emerge. Steps in creating and merging pull request;  creates a new branch from the main codebase, 2. makes changes on that branch, 3. pushes the changes to the remote repository, 4. initiates a pull request with a descriptive message, 5. receives feedback from reviewers, 6. addresses any necessary changes, and finally, 7. merges the pull request into the main branch once approved.
Question 8 Forking refers to creating a complete, independent copy of an existing repository under your own account allowing one to modify the code without affecting the original project. Forking differs from cloning in that; a fork doesn't allow direct collaboration with the root using local commands. Forking is essential when multiple developers want to collaborate on a project or when a developer wants to contribute changes to an existing project.
Question 9 Issues are Issues are quick to create, flexible, and can be used in many ways. Issues can track bug reports, new features and ideas, and anything else you need to write down or discuss with your team. Project boards help you organize and prioritize your work using the Scrum framework for project management. It also allows one to link repositories. Issues are related to different projects that can be organized in a unique project board hence enhancing collaborative efforts.
Question 10 Sometimes Git cannot automatically merge changes hence merge conflicts that require manual intervention. This can be solved by encouranging team communication and synchronization. Respositories may be cluttered as projects grow in complexity making it difficult to manage and navigate codebases, this can be solved through hierarchical branching.

